edu-1481-guide-github-autodeploy-template (#349)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/guides/marketplace/templates/edge-function-github-autopeploy/edge-function-github-autopeploy.mdx

---
title: How to use the Edge Function GitHub AutoDeploy template

> description: This template allows you to deploy edge functions integrated with Github Actions directly on the edge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: This template allows you to deploy edge functions integrated with GitHub Actions directly on the edge.
```

meta_tags: templates, guides, Azion Marketplace
namespace: docs_guides_edge_function_github_autodeploy
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/edge-function-github-autodeploy/
---

import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';

<Badge variant="accent">
Preview
</Badge>

> Azion **Edge Function GitHub AutoDeploy** is a template that allows you to deploy edge functions integrated with Github Actions directly on the edge of the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azion **Edge Function GitHub AutoDeploy** is a template that allows you to deploy edge functions integrated with GitHub Actions directly on the edge of the network.
```

> By using this template, you just need to create your edge function with an edge application, and the continuous deployment is done through GitHub Actions. It accelerates your workflows and guarantees keeping your project up to date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using this template, you just need to create your edge function with an edge application, and the continuous deployment occurs through GitHub Actions. It accelerates your workflows and guarantees keeping your project up to date.
```

This page shows you the following sections:

   - **Access your Edge Application** section includes the link to visit and explore your edge application.
   - **Build Summary** contains the application's name and function.
   - The **Deployment details** tab can be opened to access the logs related to the deployment.
   - **What do you want to do next?** provides recommendations regarding advanced options to enhance your edge application: **Customize Domain**, **Manage Edge Application**, **View Edge Application Metrics**, **View Edge Application Logs**, and the **Back to Home** button.

:::note
The link to the edge application allows you to see it on the browser. However, ​​it takes a certain time to propagate and configure the application in Azion’s edge locations. It may be necessary to wait a few minutes for the URL to be activated and for the application page to be effectively displayed in the browser.
:::

### Key configurations

The application undergoes an optimized build process, emphasizing optimal performance and efficiency, employing **Azion Edge Platform** resources.

> Afeter the deployment, it creates a [GitHub repository](https://github.com/aziontech/azion-samples/tree/dev/templates/edge-function-github-autodeploy) to manage the source code and then it installs all required dependencies and multiple configurations to set up the edge application, the domain to host your project, and an edge function for custom logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the deployment, it creates a [GitHub repository](https://github.com/aziontech/azion-samples/tree/dev/templates/edge-function-github-autodeploy) to manage the source code and then it installs all required dependencies and multiple configurations to set up the edge application, the domain to host your project, and an edge function for custom logic.
```

The script also commits deployment details to the user's GitHub repository, including information related to the version deployed and the timestamp of the deployment.

If you want to know more on how to edit and customize your project's settings, go to the [Managing the template](#managing-the-template) section.

> Additionally, to guarantee the optimal performance of this template, you must activate the following Azion product:

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, to guarantee the optimal performance of this template, you must activate:
```

<Badge>
[Edge Functions](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/edge-functions/)
</Badge>

> You must activate this product separately via RTM. To do so:

Author: ```suggestion
You must activate it separately via RTM. To do so:
```

:::

---

## Managing the template

To manage and edit your edge application's settings via Real-Time Manager (RTM), follow these steps:

1. [Access RTM](https://manager.azion.com/).
2. On the upper-left corner, select the three horizontal lines to open the **Products menu**.
3. In the **BUILD** section, select **Edge Application**.
4. You'll be redirected to the **Edge Application** page.
- It lists all the edge applications you've created. 
5. Find the edge application related to the **Edge Function GitHub AutoDeploy** template and select it. 
- The list is organized alphabetically. You can also use the **search bar** located in the upper-left corner of the list; currently, it filters only by **Application Name**.

After selecting the edge application you’ll work on, you’ll be directed to a page containing all the settings you can configure.

:::tip
Read the documentation about [managing edge applications](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/first-steps/) for more details.
:::

### Continuous deployment

> Once the template is deployed, you can also edit and update your args and code, as well as implement a continuous deployment workflow. However, you'll need first to declare secrets on your project's GitHub repository to complete the second build with the changes. When the second build is completed, you'll be able to manage your project with a continuous deployment workflow and edit the args as desired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the template is deployed, you can also edit and update your args and code, as well as implement a continuous deployment workflow. However, you'll first need to declare secrets on your project's GitHub repository to complete the second build with the changes. When the second build is completed, you'll be able to manage your project with a continuous deployment workflow and edit the args as desired.
```

To do so, open your new **Edge Function GitHub AutoDeploy** repository on GitHub. Then, go to **Settings** > **Secrets and variables** > **Action** to [add your variables](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets), following these instructions:

1. Add the Azion personal token to the *secrets*:

> - Read [how to generate an Azion personal token](/en/documentation/products/accounts/personal-tokens/) in the documentation.

Author: ```suggestion
- Read [how to generate an Azion personal token](/en/documentation/products/guides/personal-tokens/) in the documentation.
```

> - Read [how to generate an Azion personal token](/en/documentation/products/accounts/personal-tokens/) in the documentation.

Reviewer: agora dá pra linkar o guide!

```bash
    AZION_PERSONAL_TOKEN=<value>
```

2. Add the environments for use in the action workflow in the **main.yml** file, included in the **.github/workflows** folder of your repository:

> ```yml title=".github/workflows/main.yml"

Reviewer 2: Great thing this `title="file name"`!
